well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're gonna talk about
question I've got that's actually like
eight maybe nine different questions
posed by teens within the last couple of
days but it was all the same question
had three components to it
the first was that they were the angry
and apathetic I talked about when I was
sitting by the fire they know though
that they should get involved they look
around and they see all this stuff
they're angry they want to get involved
second component is that they can't they
feel it's hopeless futile that they
start and then blow it off they just
can't get in the fight and the third
component was that for whatever reason
you look up to me don't do that
so in this vein I want to talk about
something called moral injury now most
times when this is discussed the context
is people in war zones it's what it's
you normally presented as that's what
it's normally talked about but what it
stems from is perpetrating failing to
prevent or bearing witness to a gross
transgression of your morals so what it
is so yeah one extreme would be a guy
witnessing a war crime and failing to
stop it but another version of it would
be seeing the racism everyday the
environmental degradation the homeless
all of the things and those messages and
not being able to do anything about it
it's a lot like PTSD doesn't just occur
in soldiers so what happens when you
suffer a moral injury what occurs
suicide demoralisation self-harm
self-handicapping behavior
demoralisation filling that it's
hopeless futile self-handicapping
behavior starting and then blowing it
off sounds familiar right
what are some things that can help you
out one is a belief in the just
worldview are the just world hypothesis
if your moral injury occurred because
you realize the world is not just that's
not going to help you you have realized
that bad things happen to good people
and bad people aren't always punished
you can cross that one off the list the
other thing that could help is self
esteem how do you build self-esteem
age-old question right well in this
context it's pretty simple get in the
fight for 28 days it's all it takes
nothing big just everyday do something
to combat whatever it is that is causing
you that moral injury you do what you
can when you can where you can for as
long as you can doesn't have to be
anything huge if racism one of the ones
brought up in the messages is the is
your focal point sit with the kid
where's the job at school use your
snapchat to talk about something a
little bit more serious make a tweet a
Facebook post doesn't have to be huge in
fact in the beginning I would suggest
you not attempt anything huge pick
battles big enough to matter but small
enough to win so you don't get
discouraged you don't get more than
moralized and after 28 days it's not a
challenge it's a habit and as you go and
continue on this path you'll develop
more skills to tackle the bigger things
and you'll figure things out you'll meet
other people along the way that are on
the same path you know one of the things
that I've noticed is that when people
first get involved in activism whatever
you want to call it they want to jump
right in and they want to go do
something crazy don't do that don't do
that find out where your skills are
first you know when I went to Ferguson
with well let's just call them other
seasoned activists there is a young man
that wanted to go no this one's probably
not for you and he was a little mad at
the talk today
he's extremely influential he writes
though he writes your skillset
determines where you fall in this type
of thing your disposition don't go all
militant right away don't go buy a beret
and mask up just yet figure out what
you're good at
where you're gonna be most useful talked
about carry whet ler the other day in a
video
I have never seen her at any street
protest any militant action whatsoever
that she was not covering for a news
outlet does that mean that she's an
ineffective activist of course not she
reaches millions of people and has
edited for two of the largest in the
outlets out there she creates thought
probably a little more important than
you know
dodging tear gas one is a statement the
other changes people's minds so just be
leery of that now the other thing
someone who dresses you know feeling
like I've got it together okay now that
you know what moral injury is go back
and watch the videos again I would
imagine that if you talk to a
psychologist and told them the story of
me putting my hand on a gun and
basically daring a cop to shoot they
might call that self harm you'll see a
trend and it's a trend that exists
throughout the activist community the
most effective activist I know they have
one thing and only one thing in common
this
that's it it's what motivates them they
just broke through the demoralisation
and the lack of self esteem and the self
handicapped they got past it you can too
you can too most people in the world
their motivations can be summed up by
Marie MA RI e monetary addiction
religion ideology or ego the true gems
those people that will never break that
will just stay in the fight no matter
what they are all eyes they're all
ideologues and normally that comes from
seeing something and it crystallizes and
you're responding to it
the most dangerous people in the world
are true believers so don't run away
from this you know most of you when I
pushed for specifics you were guarded
and that makes sense
most people who have suffered a moral
injury most people who are ideologues
their motivations are often complicated
and most time secret believe me I
understand
whatever it is hang on to it though
remember it because it's gonna be the
reason you make it through 28 days
anyway it's just the fall y'all have a
good night